---
author: walrusmcd
title: Integrate a model into your app
description: Learn how to use Windows ML to integrate trained machine learning models into your Windows applications.
ms.author: paulm
ms.date: 5/19/2020
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, windows ai, windows ml, winml, windows machine learning
---

# Integrate a model into your app with Windows ML

In this guide, we'll cover how to use the Windows ML APIs to integrate a model into your Windows app. Alternatively, if you'd like to use Windows ML's automatic code generator, check out [mlgen](mlgen.md).

> **Important APIs**: [Windows.AI.MachineLearning](/uwp/api/windows.ai.machinelearning)

We'll go over the basic building blocks of Windows ML, which are:

* Models
* Sessions
* Devices
* Bindings

You'll use these to load, bind, and evaluate your models with Windows ML.

We also recommend taking a look at our [sample apps on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/Windows-Machine-Learning/tree/master) to see end-to-end Windows ML code examples.

The following video shows these APIs in action in a short demo.

<br/>

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/Nc2wstifyoE]

## Using WinML APIs in C++

While the WinML APIs are available in both C++/CX and C++/WinRT, we recommend using the C++/WinRT version, as it allows for more natural C++ coding and is where most development efforts will be focused going forward. You can follow the instructions below that pertain to your particular situation to use the C++/WinRT APIs:

* If you are targeting Windows 1803 or earlier, see [Tutorial: Port an Existing WinML App to NuGet Package](port-app-to-nuget.md).
* If you are creating a new C++ application, see [Tutorial: Create a Windows Machine Learning Desktop application (C++)](./get-started-desktop.md) and follow the steps up to **Load the model**.
* If you have an existing C++ application (which is not already set up for C++/WinRT), follow these steps to set up your application for C++/WinRT:
    1. Make sure you have the latest version of [Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) installed (any edition).
    2. Make sure you have the [SDK for Windows 10](https://developer.microsoft.com/windows/downloads/windows-10-sdk), version 1803 or later.
    3. Download and install the [C++/WinRT Visual Studio Extension (VSIX)](https://aka.ms/cppwinrt/vsix) from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/).
    4. Add the `<CppWinRTEnabled>true</CppWinRTEnabled>` property to the project's .vcxproj file:
        ```xml
        <Project ...>
            <PropertyGroup Label="Globals">
                <CppWinRTEnabled>true</CppWinRTEnabled>
        ...
        ```
    5. C++/WinRT requires features from the C++17 standard, so in your project properties, set **C/C++ > Language > C++ Language Standard > ISO C++17 Standard (/std:c++17)**.
    6. Set **Conformance mode: Yes (/permissive-)** in your project properties.
    7. Another project property to be aware of is **C/C++ > General > Treat Warnings As Errors**. Set this to **Yes (/WX)** or **No (/WX-)** to taste. Sometimes, source files generated by the **cppwinrt.exe** tool generate warnings until you add your implementation to them.
    8. The VSIX also gives you Visual Studio native debug visualization (natvis) of C++/WinRT projected types, providing an experience similar to C# debugging. Natvis is automatic for debug builds. You can opt into its release builds by defining the symbol **WINRT_NATVIS**.
    9. Your project should now be setup for C++/WinRT. See [C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) for more information.

## Related topics

* [mlgen](mlgen.md)
* [Performance and memory](performance-memory.md)
* [API reference](/uwp/api/windows.ai.machinelearning)
* [Code examples](https://github.com/Microsoft/Windows-Machine-Learning/tree/master)

[!INCLUDE [help](../includes/get-help.md)]
