---
title: Introducing Phi Silica in the Windows App SDK
description: Learn about the new Phi Silica APIs shipping with Windows App SDK 1.6 Experimental that can be used to access local language models for local processing and generation of chat, math solving, code generation, reasoning over text, and more.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/13/2024
ms.author: kbridge
author: karl-bridge-microsoft
---

# Introducing Phi Silica in the Windows App SDK

Use the Windows App SDK to connect your Windows app to on-device language models, including Phi 2.5 Silica, our most powerful NPU-tuned local language model yet.

Windows App SDK 1.6 Experimental ships with several Artificial Intelligence (AI) APIs to access these models and enable local processing and generation of chat, math solving, code generation, reasoning over text, and more.

## Prerequisites

- Device with a Neural Processing Unit (NPU).
- Windows App SDK 1.6 Experimental, or later.

## Get started/Set up

Ensure that an AI model is installed to use the text recognition APIs. See AI Model Readiness Patterns ***(TODO: Need link)*** for more information and examples on model acquisition.

## What can I do with Phi Silica and the Windows App SDK?

With a local Phi Silica language model and the Windows App SDK you can generate text responses to user prompts.

### Get a single, complete response based on a string prompt

This example shows how to generate a response to a Q&A prompt where the full response is generated before the result is returned.

1. First, we ensure the language model is available by checking the IsAvailable property ***(TODO: Need link)*** and waiting for the MakeAvailableAsync ***(TODO: Need link)*** function to return successfully.
1. Once the language model is available, we create a LanguageModel ***(TODO: Need link)*** object to reference it.
1. Finally, we submit a string prompt to the model using the GenerateResponseAsync function, which returns the complete result.

```csharp
using Microsoft.Windows.AI.Generative; 
 
 
if (!LanguageModel.IsAvailable()) 
{ 
   var op = await LanguageModel.MakeAvailableAsync(); 
} 
 
using LanguageModel languageModel = await LanguageModel.CreateAsync(); 
 
string prompt = "Provide the molecular formula for glucose"; 
 
var result = await languageModel.GenerateResponseAsync(prompt); 
 
Console.WriteLine(result.Response); 
```

The response generated by this example is:

```output
The molecular formula for glucose is C6H12O6.
```

### Get a stream of partial results based on a string prompt

This example shows how to generate a response to a Q&A prompt where the response is returned as a stream of partial results.

1. First we create a LanguageModel ***(TODO: Need link)*** object to reference the local language model (we already checked for the presence of the language model in the previous snippet).
1. Then we asynchronously retrieve the LanguageModelResponse ***(TODO: Need link)*** in a call to GenerateResponseWithProgressAsync ***(TODO: Need link)*** and write it to the console as the response is generated.

```csharp
using Microsoft.Windows.AI.Generative.LanguageModel languageModel = 
     await Microsoft.Windows.AI.Generative.LanguageModel.CreateAsync(); 
 
 string prompt = "Q:Provide the molecular formula for glucose.\nA:"; 
 
 
 AsyncOperationProgressHandler<Microsoft.Windows.AI.Generative.LanguageModelResponse, string> 
 progressHandler = (asyncInfo, delta) => 
 { 
     Console.WriteLine($"Progress: {delta}"); 
     Console.WriteLine($"Response so far: {asyncInfo.GetResults().Response()}"); 
 }; 
 
var asyncOp = languageModel.GenerateResponseWithProgressAsync(prompt); 
 
 asyncOp.Progress = progressHandler; 
 
 var result = await asyncOp; 
 
 Assert.IsNotNull(result); 
 
 Console.WriteLine(result.Response);
```

## Get help

If this section is needed, list resources and support services for using the product or service.

## Additional resources

If this section is needed, add links to samples, contextual information about the tasks, or prerequisites in the checklists.

[Access files and folders with Windows App SDK and WinRT APIs](/windows/apps/develop/files/winrt-files)

## Next step or Related content

- Link to API documentation
- [Related article title](link.md)
- [Related article title](link.md)

## See also
